0x0D-SQL_introduction/README.md, before:

# 0x0D. SQL - Introduction
Concepts learnt:
- What’s a database
- What’s a relational database
- What does SQL stand for
- What’s MySQL
- How to create a database in MySQL
- What does `DDL` and `DML` stand for
- How to `CREATE` or `ALTER` a table
- How to `SELECT` data from a table
- How to `INSERT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` data
- What are `subqueries`
- How to use MySQL functions

## Tasks
### 0. List databases
Write a script that lists all databases of your MySQL server.
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                     
hbtn_0c_0                                                                                    
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 1. Create a database
Write a script that creates the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- If the database `hbtn_0c_0` already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_database_if_missing.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database
information_schema
hbtn_0c_0
mysql
performance_schema
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_database_if_missing.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 2. Delete a database
Write a script that deletes the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- If the database `hbtn_0c_0` doesn’t exist, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                     
hbtn_0c_0                                                                                    
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 2-remove_database.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                                                                                                  
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 3. List tables
Write a script that lists all the tables of a database in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as argument of mysql command (in the following example: `mysql` is the name of the database)
```bash 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-list_tables.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -D mysql -p 
Enter password: 
Tables_in_mysql                                                                              
columns_priv                                                                                 
component                                                                                    
db                                                                                           
default_roles                                                                                
engine_cost                                                                                  
func                                                                                         
general_log                                                                                  
global_grants                                                                                
gtid_executed                                                                                
help_category                                                                                
help_keyword                                                                                 
help_relation                                                                                
help_topic                                                                                   
innodb_index_stats                                                                           
innodb_table_stats                                                                           
password_history                                                                             
plugin                                                                                       
procs_priv                                                                                   
proxies_priv                                                                                 
replication_asynchronous_connection_failover                                                 
replication_asynchronous_connection_failover_managed                                         
role_edges                                                                                   
server_cost                                                                                  
servers                                                                                      
slave_master_info                                                                            
slave_relay_log_info                                                                         
slave_worker_info                                                                            
slow_log                                                                                     
tables_priv                                                                                  
time_zone                                                                                    
time_zone_leap_second                                                                        
time_zone_name                                                                               
time_zone_transition                                                                         
time_zone_transition_type                                                                    
user
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 4. First table
Write a script that creates a table called `first_table` in the current database in your MySQL server.

- `first_table` description:
    * `id INT`
    * `name VARCHAR(256)`
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- If the table first_table already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 4-first_table.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-list_tables.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
Tables_in_hbtn_0c_0
first_table
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 5. Full description
Write a script that prints the full description of the table `first_table` from the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- You are not allowed to use the `DESCRIBE` or `EXPLAIN` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 5-full_table.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
Table   Create Table                                                                         
first_table     CREATE TABLE `first_table` (\n  `id` int DEFAULT NULL,\n  `name` varchar(256) DEFAULT NULL\n) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4 COLLATE=utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 6. List all in table
Write a script that lists all rows of the table `first_table` from the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- All fields should be printed
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 7. First add
Write a script that inserts a new row in the table `first_table` (database `hbtn_0c_0`) in your MySQL server.

- New row:
    * `id` = `89`
    * `name` = `Best School`
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
89  Best School
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
``` 
### 8. Count 89
Write a script that displays the number of records with `id` = `89` in the table `first_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 8-count_89.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0 | tail -1
Enter password: 
3
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 9. Full creation
Write a script that creates a table `second_table` in the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server and add multiples rows.

- second_table description:
    * `id INT`
    * `name VARCHAR(256)`
    * `score` INT`
- The database name will be passed as an argument to the mysql command
- If the table `second_table` already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` and `SHOW` statements
- Your script should create these records:
    * `id` = `1`, `name` = `“John”`, `score` = `10`
    * `id` = `2`, `name` = `“Alex”`, `score` = `3`
    * `id` = `3`, `name` = `“Bob”`, `score` = `14`
    * `id` = `4`, `name` = `“George”`, `score` = `8`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 9-full_creation.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 10. List by best
Write a script that lists all records of the table `second_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- Results should display both the `score` and the `name` (in this order)
- Records should be ordered by score (top first)
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 10-top_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
14  Bob
10  John
8   George
3   Alex
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 11. Select the best
Write a script that lists all records with a `score >= 10` in the table `second_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- Results should display both the `score` and the `name` (in this order)
- Records should be ordered by `score` (top first)
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 11-best_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
14  Bob
10  John
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 12. Cheating is bad
Write a script that updates the score of `Bob` to `10` in the table `second_table`.

- You are not allowed to use Bob’s `id` value, only the `name` field
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 12-no_cheating.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 10-top_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
10  John
10  Bob
8   George
3   Alex
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 

## Resources
- [What is Database & SQL?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FR4QIeZaPeM)
- [A Basic MySQL Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04)
- [Basic SQL statements: DDL and DML (no need to read the chapter “Privileges”)](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/ddldml.php)
- [Basic queries: SQL and RA](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/queries.php)
- [SQL technique: functions](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/functions.php)
- [SQL technique: subqueries](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/subqueries.php)
- [What makes the big difference between a backtick and an apostrophe?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29402361/what-makes-the-big-difference-between-a-backtick-and-an-apostrophe/29402458)
- [MySQL Cheat Sheet](https://intellipaat.com/mediaFiles/2019/02/SQL-Commands-Cheat-Sheet.pdf?US)
- [MySQL 8.0 SQL Statement Syntax](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-statements.html)
- [installing MySQL in Ubuntu 20.04](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/install-mysql-ubuntu-20-04)
## More info
### Comments for your SQL file:
```bash
$ cat my_script.sql
-- 3 first students in the Batch ID=3
-- because Batch 3 is the best!
SELECT id, name FROM students WHERE batch_id = 3 ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 3;
$
```
### Install MySQL 8.0 on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
```bash
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install mysql-server
...
$ mysql --version
mysql  Ver 8.0.25-0ubuntu0.20.04.1 for Linux on x86_64 ((Ubuntu))
$
```
### Connect to your MySQL server:
```bash
$ sudo mysql
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 11
Server version: 8.0.25-0ubuntu0.20.04.1 (Ubuntu)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2021, Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

mysql>
mysql> quit
Bye
$
```
### Use “container-on-demand” to run MySQL
**In the container, credentials are root/root**

- Ask for container Ubuntu 20.04
- Connect via SSH
- OR connect via the Web terminal
- In the container, you should start MySQL before playing with it:
```bash
$ service mysql start                                                   
 * Starting MySQL database server mysqld 
$
$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -u root -p                               
Database                                                                                   
information_schema                                                                         
mysql                                                                                      
performance_schema                                                                         
sys                      
$
```
**In the container, credentials are root/root**

Commit message:

Added Task 13: Score too low

0x0D-SQL_introduction/README.md, after:

# 0x0D. SQL - Introduction
Concepts learnt:
- What’s a database
- What’s a relational database
- What does SQL stand for
- What’s MySQL
- How to create a database in MySQL
- What does `DDL` and `DML` stand for
- How to `CREATE` or `ALTER` a table
- How to `SELECT` data from a table
- How to `INSERT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` data
- What are `subqueries`
- How to use MySQL functions

## Tasks
### 0. List databases
Write a script that lists all databases of your MySQL server.
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                     
hbtn_0c_0                                                                                    
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 1. Create a database
Write a script that creates the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- If the database `hbtn_0c_0` already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_database_if_missing.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database
information_schema
hbtn_0c_0
mysql
performance_schema
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_database_if_missing.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 2. Delete a database
Write a script that deletes the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- If the database `hbtn_0c_0` doesn’t exist, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                     
hbtn_0c_0                                                                                    
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 2-remove_database.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -p
Enter password: 
Database                                                                                                                                                                  
information_schema                                                                           
mysql                                                                                        
performance_schema                                                                           
sys        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 3. List tables
Write a script that lists all the tables of a database in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as argument of mysql command (in the following example: `mysql` is the name of the database)
```bash 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-list_tables.sql | mysql -h localhost -u root -D mysql -p 
Enter password: 
Tables_in_mysql                                                                              
columns_priv                                                                                 
component                                                                                    
db                                                                                           
default_roles                                                                                
engine_cost                                                                                  
func                                                                                         
general_log                                                                                  
global_grants                                                                                
gtid_executed                                                                                
help_category                                                                                
help_keyword                                                                                 
help_relation                                                                                
help_topic                                                                                   
innodb_index_stats                                                                           
innodb_table_stats                                                                           
password_history                                                                             
plugin                                                                                       
procs_priv                                                                                   
proxies_priv                                                                                 
replication_asynchronous_connection_failover                                                 
replication_asynchronous_connection_failover_managed                                         
role_edges                                                                                   
server_cost                                                                                  
servers                                                                                      
slave_master_info                                                                            
slave_relay_log_info                                                                         
slave_worker_info                                                                            
slow_log                                                                                     
tables_priv                                                                                  
time_zone                                                                                    
time_zone_leap_second                                                                        
time_zone_name                                                                               
time_zone_transition                                                                         
time_zone_transition_type                                                                    
user
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 4. First table
Write a script that creates a table called `first_table` in the current database in your MySQL server.

- `first_table` description:
    * `id INT`
    * `name VARCHAR(256)`
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- If the table first_table already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` or `SHOW` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 4-first_table.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-list_tables.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
Tables_in_hbtn_0c_0
first_table
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 5. Full description
Write a script that prints the full description of the table `first_table` from the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- You are not allowed to use the `DESCRIBE` or `EXPLAIN` statements
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 5-full_table.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
Table   Create Table                                                                         
first_table     CREATE TABLE `first_table` (\n  `id` int DEFAULT NULL,\n  `name` varchar(256) DEFAULT NULL\n) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4 COLLATE=utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci        
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 6. List all in table
Write a script that lists all rows of the table `first_table` from the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- All fields should be printed
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 7. First add
Write a script that inserts a new row in the table `first_table` (database `hbtn_0c_0`) in your MySQL server.

- New row:
    * `id` = `89`
    * `name` = `Best School`
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 7-insert_value.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 6-list_values.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
89  Best School
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
``` 
### 8. Count 89
Write a script that displays the number of records with `id` = `89` in the table `first_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 8-count_89.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0 | tail -1
Enter password: 
3
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 9. Full creation
Write a script that creates a table `second_table` in the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server and add multiples rows.

- second_table description:
    * `id INT`
    * `name VARCHAR(256)`
    * `score` INT`
- The database name will be passed as an argument to the mysql command
- If the table `second_table` already exists, your script should not fail
- You are not allowed to use the `SELECT` and `SHOW` statements
- Your script should create these records:
    * `id` = `1`, `name` = `“John”`, `score` = `10`
    * `id` = `2`, `name` = `“Alex”`, `score` = `3`
    * `id` = `3`, `name` = `“Bob”`, `score` = `14`
    * `id` = `4`, `name` = `“George”`, `score` = `8`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 9-full_creation.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 10. List by best
Write a script that lists all records of the table `second_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- Results should display both the `score` and the `name` (in this order)
- Records should be ordered by score (top first)
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 10-top_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
14  Bob
10  John
8   George
3   Alex
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 11. Select the best
Write a script that lists all records with a `score >= 10` in the table `second_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- Results should display both the `score` and the `name` (in this order)
- Records should be ordered by `score` (top first)
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 11-best_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
14  Bob
10  John
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 12. Cheating is bad
Write a script that updates the score of `Bob` to `10` in the table `second_table`.

- You are not allowed to use Bob’s `id` value, only the `name` field
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 12-no_cheating.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 10-top_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
10  John
10  Bob
8   George
3   Alex
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 13. Score too low
Write a script that removes all records with a `score <= 5` in the table `second_table` of the database `hbtn_0c_0` in your MySQL server.

- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 13-change_class.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 10-top_score.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0c_0
Enter password: 
score   name
10  John
10  Bob
8   George
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 
### 
### 

## Resources
- [What is Database & SQL?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FR4QIeZaPeM)
- [A Basic MySQL Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-20-04)
- [Basic SQL statements: DDL and DML (no need to read the chapter “Privileges”)](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/ddldml.php)
- [Basic queries: SQL and RA](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/queries.php)
- [SQL technique: functions](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/functions.php)
- [SQL technique: subqueries](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/subqueries.php)
- [What makes the big difference between a backtick and an apostrophe?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29402361/what-makes-the-big-difference-between-a-backtick-and-an-apostrophe/29402458)
- [MySQL Cheat Sheet](https://intellipaat.com/mediaFiles/2019/02/SQL-Commands-Cheat-Sheet.pdf?US)
- [MySQL 8.0 SQL Statement Syntax](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-statements.html)
- [installing MySQL in Ubuntu 20.04](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/install-mysql-ubuntu-20-04)
## More info
### Comments for your SQL file:
```bash
$ cat my_script.sql
-- 3 first students in the Batch ID=3
-- because Batch 3 is the best!
SELECT id, name FROM students WHERE batch_id = 3 ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 3;
$
```
### Install MySQL 8.0 on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
```bash
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install mysql-server
...
$ mysql --version
mysql  Ver 8.0.25-0ubuntu0.20.04.1 for Linux on x86_64 ((Ubuntu))
$
```
### Connect to your MySQL server:
```bash
$ sudo mysql
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 11
Server version: 8.0.25-0ubuntu0.20.04.1 (Ubuntu)

Copyright (c) 2000, 2021, Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

mysql>
mysql> quit
Bye
$
```
### Use “container-on-demand” to run MySQL
**In the container, credentials are root/root**

- Ask for container Ubuntu 20.04
- Connect via SSH
- OR connect via the Web terminal
- In the container, you should start MySQL before playing with it:
```bash
$ service mysql start                                                   
 * Starting MySQL database server mysqld 
$
$ cat 0-list_databases.sql | mysql -u root -p                               
Database                                                                                   
information_schema                                                                         
mysql                                                                                      
performance_schema                                                                         
sys                      
$
```
**In the container, credentials are root/root**
