0x0A-python-inheritance/README.md, before:

# 0x0A. Python - Inheritance
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- What is a superclass, baseclass or parentclass
- What is a subclass
- How to list all attributes and methods of a class or instance
- When can an instance have new attributes
- How to inherit class from another
- How to define a class with multiple base classes
- What is the default class every class inherit from
- How to override a method or attribute inherited from the base class
- Which attributes or methods are available by heritage to subclasses
- What is the purpose of inheritance
- What are, when and how to use isinstance, issubclass, type and super built-in functions
## Tasks
### 0. Lookup
Write a function that returns the list of available attributes and methods of an object:

- Prototype: `def lookup(obj):`
- Returns a list object
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./0-main.py
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__']
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__', 'my_attr1', 'my_meth']
['__abs__', '__add__', '__and__', '__bool__', '__ceil__', '__class__', '__delattr__', '__dir__', '__divmod__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__float__', '__floor__', '__floordiv__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getnewargs__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__index__', '__init__', '__int__', '__invert__', '__le__', '__lshift__', '__lt__', '__mod__', '__mul__', '__ne__', '__neg__', '__new__', '__or__', '__pos__', '__pow__', '__radd__', '__rand__', '__rdivmod__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__rfloordiv__', '__rlshift__', '__rmod__', '__rmul__', '__ror__', '__round__', '__rpow__', '__rrshift__', '__rshift__', '__rsub__', '__rtruediv__', '__rxor__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__sub__', '__subclasshook__', '__truediv__', '__trunc__', '__xor__', 'bit_length', 'conjugate', 'denominator', 'from_bytes', 'imag', 'numerator', 'real', 'to_bytes']
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 1. My list
Write a class `MyList` that inherits from `list`:

- Public instance method: `def print_sorted(self):` that prints the list, but sorted (ascending sort)
- You can assume that all the elements of the list will be of type `int`
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./1-main.py
[1, 4, 2, 3, 5]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
[1, 4, 2, 3, 5]
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
### 2. Exact same object
Write a function that returns `True` if the object is exactly an instance of the specified class ; otherwise `False`.

- Prototype: `def is_same_class(obj, a_class):`
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./2-main.py
1 is an instance of the class int
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [Inheritance](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance)
- [Multiple inheritance](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#multiple-inheritance)
- [Inheritance in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inheritance-in-python/)
- [Learn to Program 10 : Inheritance Magic Methods](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d8kCdLCi6Lk)

Commit message:

Added Task 3: Same class or inherit from

0x0A-python-inheritance/README.md, after:

# 0x0A. Python - Inheritance
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- What is a superclass, baseclass or parentclass
- What is a subclass
- How to list all attributes and methods of a class or instance
- When can an instance have new attributes
- How to inherit class from another
- How to define a class with multiple base classes
- What is the default class every class inherit from
- How to override a method or attribute inherited from the base class
- Which attributes or methods are available by heritage to subclasses
- What is the purpose of inheritance
- What are, when and how to use isinstance, issubclass, type and super built-in functions
## Tasks
### 0. Lookup
Write a function that returns the list of available attributes and methods of an object:

- Prototype: `def lookup(obj):`
- Returns a list object
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./0-main.py
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__']
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__', 'my_attr1', 'my_meth']
['__abs__', '__add__', '__and__', '__bool__', '__ceil__', '__class__', '__delattr__', '__dir__', '__divmod__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__float__', '__floor__', '__floordiv__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getnewargs__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__index__', '__init__', '__int__', '__invert__', '__le__', '__lshift__', '__lt__', '__mod__', '__mul__', '__ne__', '__neg__', '__new__', '__or__', '__pos__', '__pow__', '__radd__', '__rand__', '__rdivmod__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__rfloordiv__', '__rlshift__', '__rmod__', '__rmul__', '__ror__', '__round__', '__rpow__', '__rrshift__', '__rshift__', '__rsub__', '__rtruediv__', '__rxor__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__sub__', '__subclasshook__', '__truediv__', '__trunc__', '__xor__', 'bit_length', 'conjugate', 'denominator', 'from_bytes', 'imag', 'numerator', 'real', 'to_bytes']
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 1. My list
Write a class `MyList` that inherits from `list`:

- Public instance method: `def print_sorted(self):` that prints the list, but sorted (ascending sort)
- You can assume that all the elements of the list will be of type `int`
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./1-main.py
[1, 4, 2, 3, 5]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
[1, 4, 2, 3, 5]
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
### 2. Exact same object
Write a function that returns `True` if the object is exactly an instance of the specified class ; otherwise `False`.

- Prototype: `def is_same_class(obj, a_class):`
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./2-main.py
1 is an instance of the class int
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 3. Same class or inherit from
Write a function that returns `True` if the object is an instance of, or if the object is an instance of a class that inherited from, the specified class ; otherwise `False`.

- Prototype: `def is_kind_of_class(obj, a_class):`
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ ./3-main.py
1 comes from int
1 comes from object
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0A$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [Inheritance](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#inheritance)
- [Multiple inheritance](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#multiple-inheritance)
- [Inheritance in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inheritance-in-python/)
- [Learn to Program 10 : Inheritance Magic Methods](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d8kCdLCi6Lk)
