0x0E-SQL_more_queries/README.md, before:

# 0x0E. SQL - More queries
Concepts learnt:
- How to create a new MySQL user
- How to manage privileges for a user to a database or table
- What’s a `PRIMAY KEY`
- What’s a `FOREIGN KEY`
- How to use `NOT NULL` and `UNIQUE` constraints
- How to retrieve datas from multiple tables in one request
- What are subqueries
- What are `JOIN` and `UNION`
## Tasks
### 0. My privileges!
Write a script that lists all privileges of the MySQL users `user_0d_1` and `user_0d_2` on your server (in localhost).
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 3: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_1' on host 'localhost'
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo "CREATE USER 'user_0d_1'@'localhost';" |  mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo "GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'user_0d_1'@'localhost';" |  mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDA..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,AUDIT...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 4: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_2' on host 'localhost'              
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 1. Root user
Write a script that creates the MySQL server user `user_0d_1`.

- `user_0d_1` should have all privileges on your MySQL server
- The `user_0d_1` password should be set to `user_0d_1_pwd`
- If the user `user_0d_1` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_user.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, INSERT..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 4: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_2' on host 'localhost'
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 2. Read user
Write a script that creates the database `hbtn_0d_2` and the user `user_0d_2`.

- `user_0d_2` should have only `SELECT` privilege in the database `hbtn_0d_2`
- The `user_0d_2` password should be set to `user_0d_2_pwd`
- If the database `hbtn_0d_2` already exists, your script should not fail
- If the user `user_0d_2` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 2-create_read_user.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, ..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
Grants for user_0d_2@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT USAGE ON *.* TO `user_0d_2`@`localhost`                                                                                 
GRANT SELECT ON `hbtn_0d_2`.* TO `user_0d_2`@`localhost`  
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 3. Always a name
Write a script that creates the table `force_name` on your MySQL server.

- `force_name` description:
    * `id INT
    * `name VARCHAR(256)` can’t be null
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- If the table `force_name` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-`force_name`.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO `force_name` (id, name) VALUES (89, "Best School");' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM `force_name`;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO `force_name` (id) VALUES (333);' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
ERROR 1364 (HY000) at line 1: Field 'name' doesn't have a default value
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM `force_name`;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [How To Create a New User and Grant Permissions in MySQL](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-user-and-grant-permissions-in-mysql)
- [How To Use MySQL GRANT Statement To Grant Privileges To a User](https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-administration/mysql-grant/)
- [MySQL constraints](https://zetcode.com/mysql/constraints/)
- [SQL technique: subqueries](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/subqueries.php)
- [Basic query operation: the join](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/join.php)
- [SQL technique: multiple joins and the distinct keyword](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/multijoin.php)
- [SQL technique: join types](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/jointypes.php)
- [SQL technique: union and minus](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/setops.php)
- [MySQL Cheat Sheet](https://intellipaat.com/mediaFiles/2019/02/SQL-Commands-Cheat-Sheet.pdf?US)
- [The Seven Types of SQL Joins](https://tableplus.com/blog/2018/09/a-beginners-guide-to-seven-types-of-sql-joins.html)
- [MySQL Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPu6qV5byu4)
- [SQL Style Guide](https://www.sqlstyle.guide/)
- [MySQL 8.0 SQL Statement Syntax](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-statements.html)

Extra resources around relational database model design:

- [Design](https://www.guru99.com/database-design.html)
- [Normalization](https://www.guru99.com/database-normalization.html)
- [ER Modeling](https://www.guru99.com/er-modeling.html)

Commit message:

Added Task 4: ID can't be null

0x0E-SQL_more_queries/README.md, after:

# 0x0E. SQL - More queries
Concepts learnt:
- How to create a new MySQL user
- How to manage privileges for a user to a database or table
- What’s a `PRIMAY KEY`
- What’s a `FOREIGN KEY`
- How to use `NOT NULL` and `UNIQUE` constraints
- How to retrieve datas from multiple tables in one request
- What are subqueries
- What are `JOIN` and `UNION`
## Tasks
### 0. My privileges!
Write a script that lists all privileges of the MySQL users `user_0d_1` and `user_0d_2` on your server (in localhost).
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 3: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_1' on host 'localhost'
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo "CREATE USER 'user_0d_1'@'localhost';" |  mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo "GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'user_0d_1'@'localhost';" |  mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDA..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,AUDIT...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 4: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_2' on host 'localhost'              
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 1. Root user
Write a script that creates the MySQL server user `user_0d_1`.

- `user_0d_1` should have all privileges on your MySQL server
- The `user_0d_1` password should be set to `user_0d_1_pwd`
- If the user `user_0d_1` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 1-create_user.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, INSERT..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
ERROR 1141 (42000) at line 4: There is no such grant defined for user 'user_0d_2' on host 'localhost'
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 2. Read user
Write a script that creates the database `hbtn_0d_2` and the user `user_0d_2`.

- `user_0d_2` should have only `SELECT` privilege in the database `hbtn_0d_2`
- The `user_0d_2` password should be set to `user_0d_2_pwd`
- If the database `hbtn_0d_2` already exists, your script should not fail
- If the user `user_0d_2` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 2-create_read_user.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 0-privileges.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p
Enter password: 
Grants for user_0d_1@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT SELECT, ..., DROP ROLE ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                                                                                                             
GRANT APPLICATION_PASSWORD_ADMIN,...,XA_RECOVER_ADMIN ON *.* TO `user_0d_1`@`localhost`                                        
Grants for user_0d_2@localhost                                                                                                
GRANT USAGE ON *.* TO `user_0d_2`@`localhost`                                                                                 
GRANT SELECT ON `hbtn_0d_2`.* TO `user_0d_2`@`localhost`  
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 3. Always a name
Write a script that creates the table `force_name` on your MySQL server.

- `force_name` description:
    * `id INT
    * `name VARCHAR(256)` can’t be null
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- If the table `force_name` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 3-`force_name`.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO `force_name` (id, name) VALUES (89, "Best School");' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM `force_name`;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO `force_name` (id) VALUES (333);' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
ERROR 1364 (HY000) at line 1: Field 'name' doesn't have a default value
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM `force_name`;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 4. ID can't be null
Write a script that creates the table `id_not_null` on your MySQL server.

- `id_not_null` description:
    * `id INT` with the default value `1`
    * `name VARCHAR(256)`
- The database name will be passed as an argument of the mysql command
- If the table `id_not_null` already exists, your script should not fail
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ cat 4-never_empty.sql | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO id_not_null (id, name) VALUES (89, "Best School");' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM id_not_null;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'INSERT INTO id_not_null (name) VALUES ("Best");' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ echo 'SELECT * FROM id_not_null;' | mysql -hlocalhost -uroot -p hbtn_0d_2
Enter password: 
id  name
89  Best School
1   Best
guillaume@ubuntu:~/$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [How To Create a New User and Grant Permissions in MySQL](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-user-and-grant-permissions-in-mysql)
- [How To Use MySQL GRANT Statement To Grant Privileges To a User](https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-administration/mysql-grant/)
- [MySQL constraints](https://zetcode.com/mysql/constraints/)
- [SQL technique: subqueries](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/subqueries.php)
- [Basic query operation: the join](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/join.php)
- [SQL technique: multiple joins and the distinct keyword](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/multijoin.php)
- [SQL technique: join types](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/jointypes.php)
- [SQL technique: union and minus](https://web.csulb.edu/colleges/coe/cecs/dbdesign/dbdesign.php?page=sql/setops.php)
- [MySQL Cheat Sheet](https://intellipaat.com/mediaFiles/2019/02/SQL-Commands-Cheat-Sheet.pdf?US)
- [The Seven Types of SQL Joins](https://tableplus.com/blog/2018/09/a-beginners-guide-to-seven-types-of-sql-joins.html)
- [MySQL Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPu6qV5byu4)
- [SQL Style Guide](https://www.sqlstyle.guide/)
- [MySQL 8.0 SQL Statement Syntax](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-statements.html)

Extra resources around relational database model design:

- [Design](https://www.guru99.com/database-design.html)
- [Normalization](https://www.guru99.com/database-normalization.html)
- [ER Modeling](https://www.guru99.com/er-modeling.html)
