0x11-python-network_1/README.md, before:

# 0x11. Python - Network #1
## Concepts learnt
- How to fetch internet resources with the Python package `urllib`
- How to decode `urllib` body response
- How to use the Python package `requests` #requestsiswaysimplerthanurllib
- How to make HTTP `GET` request
- How to make HTTP `POST`/`PUT`/etc. request
- How to fetch JSON resources
- How to manipulate data from an external service
## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- All your files will be interpreted/compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `python3` (version 3.8.5)
- All your files should end with a new line
- The first line of all your files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/python3`
- A `README.md` file at the root of the repo, containing a description of the repository
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of this project, is mandatory
- Your code should use the `pycodestyle` (version 2.8.*)
- All your files must be executable
- The length of your files will be tested using `wc`
- All your modules should have a documentation (`python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").__doc__)'`)
- You must use [get](https://docs.python.org/3.4/library/stdtypes.html#dict.get) to access to dictionary value by key (it won’t throw an exception if the key doesn’t exist in the dictionary)
- A documentation is not a simple word, it’s a real sentence explaining what’s the purpose of the module, class or method (the length of it will be verified)
- Your code should not be executed when imported (by using `if __name__ == "__main__":`)
## Sandbox
```bash
$ ssh 1a1fa43a202f@1a1fa43a202f.b44aa7f8.alx-cod.online
1a1fa43a202f@1a1fa43a202f.b44aa7f8.alx-cod.online's password: 490200d1f627c28ed43f
```
## Tasks
### 0. What's my status? #0
Write a Python script that fetches https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status

- You must use the package `urllib`
- You are not allowed to import any packages other than `urllib`
- The body of the response must be displayed like the following example (tabulation before -)
- You must use a `with` statement
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./0-hbtn_status.py | cat -e
Body response:$
    - type: <class 'bytes'>$
    - content: b'OK'$
    - utf8 content: OK$
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 1. Response header value #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the value of the `X-Request-Id` variable found in the header of the response.

- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allow to import packages other than `urllib` and `sys`
- The value of this variable is different for each request
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (`number` or `type`)
- You must use a `with` statement
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./1-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
ade2627e-41dd-4c34-b9d9-a0fa0f47b237
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./1-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
6593e1f5-1b4b-4c9f-9c0e-72ab525b850f
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 2. POST an email #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL and an email, sends a `POST` request to the passed URL with the email as a parameter, and displays the body of the response (decoded in `utf-8`)

- The email must be sent in the `email` variable
- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allowed to import packages other than `urllib` and `sys`
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (number or type)
- You must use the `with` statement
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./2-post_email.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/post_email hr@holbertonschool.com
Your email is: hr@holbertonschool.com
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 3. Error code #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the body of the response (decoded in utf-8).

- You have to manage `urllib.error.HTTPError` exceptions and print: `Error code:` followed by the HTTP status code
- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allowed to import other packages than `urllib` and `sys`
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (number or type)
- You must use the `with` statement
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000
Index
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py 
Error code: 401
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/doesnt_exist
Error code: 404
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/status_500
Error code: 500
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
``` 
### 4. What's my status? #1
Write a Python script that fetches https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status

- You must use the package `requests`
- You are not allow to import packages other than `requests`
- The body of the response must be display like the following example (tabulation before -)
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./4-hbtn_status.py | cat -e
Body response:$
    - type: <class 'str'>$
    - content: OK$
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 5. Response header value #1
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the value of the variable `X-Request-Id` in the response header

- You must use the packages `requests` and `sys`
- You are not allow to import other packages than `requests` and `sys`
- The value of this variable is different for each request
- You don’t need to check script arguments (number and type)
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./5-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
5e52e160-c822-4669-8b3a-8b3bbca7b090
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./5-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
eaceaf35-bc0f-4f74-994a-7be0728ec654
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [HOWTO Fetch Internet Resources Using urllib Package](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/urllib2.html)
- [Quickstart with Requests package](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Requests package](https://pypi.org/project/requests/)

Commit message:

Added Task 6: POST an email #1

0x11-python-network_1/README.md, after:

# 0x11. Python - Network #1
## Concepts learnt
- How to fetch internet resources with the Python package `urllib`
- How to decode `urllib` body response
- How to use the Python package `requests` #requestsiswaysimplerthanurllib
- How to make HTTP `GET` request
- How to make HTTP `POST`/`PUT`/etc. request
- How to fetch JSON resources
- How to manipulate data from an external service
## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- All your files will be interpreted/compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `python3` (version 3.8.5)
- All your files should end with a new line
- The first line of all your files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/python3`
- A `README.md` file at the root of the repo, containing a description of the repository
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of this project, is mandatory
- Your code should use the `pycodestyle` (version 2.8.*)
- All your files must be executable
- The length of your files will be tested using `wc`
- All your modules should have a documentation (`python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").__doc__)'`)
- You must use [get](https://docs.python.org/3.4/library/stdtypes.html#dict.get) to access to dictionary value by key (it won’t throw an exception if the key doesn’t exist in the dictionary)
- A documentation is not a simple word, it’s a real sentence explaining what’s the purpose of the module, class or method (the length of it will be verified)
- Your code should not be executed when imported (by using `if __name__ == "__main__":`)
## Sandbox
```bash
$ ssh 1a1fa43a202f@1a1fa43a202f.b44aa7f8.alx-cod.online
1a1fa43a202f@1a1fa43a202f.b44aa7f8.alx-cod.online's password: 490200d1f627c28ed43f
```
## Tasks
### 0. What's my status? #0
Write a Python script that fetches https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status

- You must use the package `urllib`
- You are not allowed to import any packages other than `urllib`
- The body of the response must be displayed like the following example (tabulation before -)
- You must use a `with` statement
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./0-hbtn_status.py | cat -e
Body response:$
    - type: <class 'bytes'>$
    - content: b'OK'$
    - utf8 content: OK$
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 1. Response header value #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the value of the `X-Request-Id` variable found in the header of the response.

- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allow to import packages other than `urllib` and `sys`
- The value of this variable is different for each request
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (`number` or `type`)
- You must use a `with` statement
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./1-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
ade2627e-41dd-4c34-b9d9-a0fa0f47b237
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./1-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
6593e1f5-1b4b-4c9f-9c0e-72ab525b850f
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 2. POST an email #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL and an email, sends a `POST` request to the passed URL with the email as a parameter, and displays the body of the response (decoded in `utf-8`)

- The email must be sent in the `email` variable
- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allowed to import packages other than `urllib` and `sys`
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (number or type)
- You must use the `with` statement
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./2-post_email.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/post_email hr@holbertonschool.com
Your email is: hr@holbertonschool.com
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 3. Error code #0
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the body of the response (decoded in utf-8).

- You have to manage `urllib.error.HTTPError` exceptions and print: `Error code:` followed by the HTTP status code
- You must use the packages `urllib` and `sys`
- You are not allowed to import other packages than `urllib` and `sys`
- You don’t need to check arguments passed to the script (number or type)
- You must use the `with` statement
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000
Index
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py 
Error code: 401
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/doesnt_exist
Error code: 404
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./3-error_code.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/status_500
Error code: 500
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
``` 
### 4. What's my status? #1
Write a Python script that fetches https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status

- You must use the package `requests`
- You are not allow to import packages other than `requests`
- The body of the response must be display like the following example (tabulation before -)
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./4-hbtn_status.py | cat -e
Body response:$
    - type: <class 'str'>$
    - content: OK$
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 5. Response header value #1
Write a Python script that takes in a URL, sends a request to the URL and displays the value of the variable `X-Request-Id` in the response header

- You must use the packages `requests` and `sys`
- You are not allow to import other packages than `requests` and `sys`
- The value of this variable is different for each request
- You don’t need to check script arguments (number and type)
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./5-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
5e52e160-c822-4669-8b3a-8b3bbca7b090
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./5-hbtn_header.py https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io
eaceaf35-bc0f-4f74-994a-7be0728ec654
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 6. POST an email #1
Write a Python script that takes in a URL and an email address, sends a `POST` request to the passed URL with the email as a parameter, and finally displays the body of the response.

- The email must be sent in the variable `email`
- You must use the packages `requests` and `sys`
- You are not allowed to import packages other than `requests` and `sys`
- You don’t need to error check arguments passed to the script (number or type)
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ ./6-post_email.py http://0.0.0.0:5000/post_email hr@holbertonschool.com
Your email is: hr@holbertonschool.com
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x11$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [HOWTO Fetch Internet Resources Using urllib Package](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/urllib2.html)
- [Quickstart with Requests package](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Requests package](https://pypi.org/project/requests/)
