0x14-javascript-web_scraping/README.md, before:

# 0x14. JavaScript - Web scraping
## Concpets learnt
- Why JavaScript programming is amazing
- How to manipulate JSON data
- How to use `request` and `fetch` API
- How to read and write a file using `fs` module

## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- All your files will be interpreted on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `node` (version 14.x)
- All your files should end with a new line
- The first line of all your files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/node`
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project, is mandatory
- Your code should be `semistandard` compliant (version 16.x.x). [Rules of Standard](https://standardjs.com/rules.html) + [semicolons on top](https://github.com/standard/semistandard). Also as reference: [AirBnB style](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)
- All your files must be executable
- The length of your files will be tested using `wc`
- You are not allowed to use `var`

## More Info
### Install Node 14
```bash
$ curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo -E bash -
$ sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```
### Install semi-standard
Documentation
```bash
$ sudo npm install semistandard --global
```
### Install request module and use it
[Documentation](https://github.com/request/request)
```bash
$ sudo npm install request --global
$ export NODE_PATH=/usr/lib/node_modules
```

**Notes:** Request module has been deprecated since February 2020 - the team is considering alternative to replace this module - however, it’s a really simple and powerful module for practicing web-scraping in JavaScript (and still used a lot in the industry).

## Tasks
### 0. Readme
Write a script that reads and prints the content of a file.

- The first argument is the file path
- The content of the file must be read in `utf-8`
- If an error occurred during the reading, print the error object
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ cat cisfun
C is super fun!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./0-readme.js cisfun
C is super fun!

guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./0-readme.js doesntexist
{ Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, open 'doesntexist'
    at Error (native)
  errno: -2,
  code: 'ENOENT',
  syscall: 'open',
  path: 'doesntexist' }
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```

### 1. Write me
Write a script that writes a string to a file.

- The first argument is the file path
- The second argument is the string to write
- The content of the file must be written in `utf-8`
- If an error occurred during while writing, print the error object
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./1-writeme.js my_file.txt "Python is cool"
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ cat my_file.txt ; echo ""
Python is cool
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 2. Status code
Write a script that display the status code of a `GET` request.

- The first argument is the URL to request (`GET`)
- The status code must be printed like this: `code: <status code>`
- You must use the module `request`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./2-statuscode.js https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status
code: 200
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./2-statuscode.js https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/doesnt_exist
code: 404
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 3. Star wars movie title
Write a script that prints the title of a Star Wars movie where the episode number matches a given integer.

- The first argument is the movie ID
- You must use the [Star wars API](https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/) with the endpoint https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/api/films/:id
- You must use the module `request`
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./3-starwars_title.js 1
A New Hope
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./3-starwars_title.js 5
Attack of the Clones
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [Working with JSON data](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/JSON)
- [The workflow of accessing the attributes of a simply-created JSON object by Jimmy Tran from Cohort 1 - San Francisco](https://medium.com/@vietkieutie/the-workflow-of-accessing-the-attributes-of-a-simply-created-json-object-82a5b33e2319)
- [Modern JS](https://github.com/mbeaudru/modern-js-cheatsheet)
- [request module](https://github.com/request/request)
- [file system](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/node-js-file-system/)

Commit message:

Added Task 4: Star wars Wedge Antilles

0x14-javascript-web_scraping/README.md, after:

# 0x14. JavaScript - Web scraping
## Concpets learnt
- Why JavaScript programming is amazing
- How to manipulate JSON data
- How to use `request` and `fetch` API
- How to read and write a file using `fs` module

## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- All your files will be interpreted on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `node` (version 14.x)
- All your files should end with a new line
- The first line of all your files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/node`
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project, is mandatory
- Your code should be `semistandard` compliant (version 16.x.x). [Rules of Standard](https://standardjs.com/rules.html) + [semicolons on top](https://github.com/standard/semistandard). Also as reference: [AirBnB style](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)
- All your files must be executable
- The length of your files will be tested using `wc`
- You are not allowed to use `var`

## More Info
### Install Node 14
```bash
$ curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo -E bash -
$ sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```
### Install semi-standard
Documentation
```bash
$ sudo npm install semistandard --global
```
### Install request module and use it
[Documentation](https://github.com/request/request)
```bash
$ sudo npm install request --global
$ export NODE_PATH=/usr/lib/node_modules
```

**Notes:** Request module has been deprecated since February 2020 - the team is considering alternative to replace this module - however, it’s a really simple and powerful module for practicing web-scraping in JavaScript (and still used a lot in the industry).

## Tasks
### 0. Readme
Write a script that reads and prints the content of a file.

- The first argument is the file path
- The content of the file must be read in `utf-8`
- If an error occurred during the reading, print the error object
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ cat cisfun
C is super fun!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./0-readme.js cisfun
C is super fun!

guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./0-readme.js doesntexist
{ Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, open 'doesntexist'
    at Error (native)
  errno: -2,
  code: 'ENOENT',
  syscall: 'open',
  path: 'doesntexist' }
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```

### 1. Write me
Write a script that writes a string to a file.

- The first argument is the file path
- The second argument is the string to write
- The content of the file must be written in `utf-8`
- If an error occurred during while writing, print the error object
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./1-writeme.js my_file.txt "Python is cool"
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ cat my_file.txt ; echo ""
Python is cool
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 2. Status code
Write a script that display the status code of a `GET` request.

- The first argument is the URL to request (`GET`)
- The status code must be printed like this: `code: <status code>`
- You must use the module `request`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./2-statuscode.js https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/status
code: 200
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./2-statuscode.js https://alx-intranet.hbtn.io/doesnt_exist
code: 404
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 3. Star wars movie title
Write a script that prints the title of a Star Wars movie where the episode number matches a given integer.

- The first argument is the movie ID
- You must use the [Star wars API](https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/) with the endpoint https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/api/films/:id
- You must use the module `request`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./3-starwars_title.js 1
A New Hope
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./3-starwars_title.js 5
Attack of the Clones
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 4. Star wars Wedge Antilles
Write a script that prints the number of movies where the character `Wedge Antilles` is present.

- The first argument is the API URL of the [Star wars API](https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/): https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/api/films/
- Wedge Antilles is character ID `18` - your script **must** use this ID for filtering the result of the API
- You must use the module `request`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ ./4-starwars_count.js https://swapi-api.alx-tools.com/api/films
3
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x14$ 
```
### 
### 
## Resources
- [Working with JSON data](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/JSON)
- [The workflow of accessing the attributes of a simply-created JSON object by Jimmy Tran from Cohort 1 - San Francisco](https://medium.com/@vietkieutie/the-workflow-of-accessing-the-attributes-of-a-simply-created-json-object-82a5b33e2319)
- [Modern JS](https://github.com/mbeaudru/modern-js-cheatsheet)
- [request module](https://github.com/request/request)
- [file system](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/node-js-file-system/)
