0x10-python-network_0/README.md, before:

# 0x10. Python - Network #0
## Concepts learnt
- What a URL is
- What HTTP is
- How to read a URL
- The scheme for a HTTP URL
- What a domain name is
- What a sub-domain is
- How to define a port number in a URL
- What a query string is
- What an HTTP request is
- What an HTTP response is
- What HTTP headers are
- What the HTTP message body is
- What an HTTP request method is
- What an HTTP response status code is
- What an HTTP Cookie is
- How to make a request with cURL
- What happens when you type google.com in your browser (Application level)

## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project, is mandatory
- All your scripts will be tested on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
- All your Bash scripts should be exactly 3 lines long (`wc -l` file should print `3`)
- All your files should end with a new line
- All your files must be executable
- The first line of all your bash files should be exactly `#!/bin/bash`
- The second line of all your Bash scripts should be a comment explaining what is the script doing
- All curl commands must have the option `-s` (silent mode)
- All your files will be interpreted/compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `python3` (version 3.8.5)
- The first line of all your Python files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/python3`
- Your code should use the `pycodestyle` (version 2.8.*)
- All your modules should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").__doc__)'`
- All your classes should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").MyClass.__doc__)'`
- All your functions (inside and outside a class) should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").my_function.__doc__)'` and `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").MyClass.my_function.__doc__)'`
- A documentation is not a simple word, it’s a real sentence explaining what’s the purpose of the module, class or method  (the length of it will be verified)
## Tasks
### Sandbox
```bash
$ ssh 9e515e25a55a@9e515e25a55a.bda61118.alx-cod.online
9e515e25a55a@9e515e25a55a.bda61118.alx-cod.online's password: 829f8db0c716b532c925
```
### 0. cURL body size
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL, sends a request to that URL, and displays the size of the body of the response

- The size must be displayed in bytes
- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port `5000`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./0-body_size.sh 0.0.0.0:5000
10
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 1. cURL to the end
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL, sends a `GET` request to the URL, and displays the body of the response

- Display only body of a `200` status code response
- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./1-body.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_1 ; echo ""
Route 2
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 2. cURL Method
Write a Bash script that sends a `DELETE` request to the URL passed as the first argument and displays the body of the response

- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port `5000`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./2-delete.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_3 ; echo ""
I'm a DELETE request
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
``` 
### 3. cURL only methods
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL and displays all HTTP methods the server will accept.

- You have to use `curl`
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./3-methods.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_4
OPTIONS, HEAD, PUT
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 4. cURL headers
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL as an argument, sends a GET request to the URL, and displays the body of the response

- A header variable `X-School-User-Id` must be sent with the value `98`
- You have to use `curl`
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./4-header.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_5 ; echo ""
Hello School!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
``` 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/webprogramming/HTTP_Basics.html) (except: “TRACE” Request Method, “CONNECT” Request Method, Language Negotiation and “Options MultiView” and Character Set Negotiation)
- [HTTP Cookies](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies)

Commit message:

Added Task 5: cURL POST parameters

0x10-python-network_0/README.md, after:

# 0x10. Python - Network #0
## Concepts learnt
- What a URL is
- What HTTP is
- How to read a URL
- The scheme for a HTTP URL
- What a domain name is
- What a sub-domain is
- How to define a port number in a URL
- What a query string is
- What an HTTP request is
- What an HTTP response is
- What HTTP headers are
- What the HTTP message body is
- What an HTTP request method is
- What an HTTP response status code is
- What an HTTP Cookie is
- How to make a request with cURL
- What happens when you type google.com in your browser (Application level)

## Requirements
- Allowed editors: `vi`, `vim`, `emacs`
- A `README.md` file, at the root of the folder of the project, is mandatory
- All your scripts will be tested on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
- All your Bash scripts should be exactly 3 lines long (`wc -l` file should print `3`)
- All your files should end with a new line
- All your files must be executable
- The first line of all your bash files should be exactly `#!/bin/bash`
- The second line of all your Bash scripts should be a comment explaining what is the script doing
- All curl commands must have the option `-s` (silent mode)
- All your files will be interpreted/compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using `python3` (version 3.8.5)
- The first line of all your Python files should be exactly `#!/usr/bin/python3`
- Your code should use the `pycodestyle` (version 2.8.*)
- All your modules should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").__doc__)'`
- All your classes should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").MyClass.__doc__)'`
- All your functions (inside and outside a class) should be documented: `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").my_function.__doc__)'` and `python3 -c 'print(__import__("my_module").MyClass.my_function.__doc__)'`
- A documentation is not a simple word, it’s a real sentence explaining what’s the purpose of the module, class or method  (the length of it will be verified)
## Tasks
### Sandbox
```bash
$ ssh 9e515e25a55a@9e515e25a55a.bda61118.alx-cod.online
9e515e25a55a@9e515e25a55a.bda61118.alx-cod.online's password: 829f8db0c716b532c925
```
### 0. cURL body size
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL, sends a request to that URL, and displays the size of the body of the response

- The size must be displayed in bytes
- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port `5000`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./0-body_size.sh 0.0.0.0:5000
10
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 1. cURL to the end
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL, sends a `GET` request to the URL, and displays the body of the response

- Display only body of a `200` status code response
- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./1-body.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_1 ; echo ""
Route 2
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 2. cURL Method
Write a Bash script that sends a `DELETE` request to the URL passed as the first argument and displays the body of the response

- You have to use `curl`
- Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port `5000`
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./2-delete.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_3 ; echo ""
I'm a DELETE request
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
``` 
### 3. cURL only methods
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL and displays all HTTP methods the server will accept.

- You have to use `curl`
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./3-methods.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_4
OPTIONS, HEAD, PUT
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```
### 4. cURL headers
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL as an argument, sends a GET request to the URL, and displays the body of the response

- A header variable `X-School-User-Id` must be sent with the value `98`
- You have to use `curl`
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./4-header.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_5 ; echo ""
Hello School!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
``` 
### 5. cURL POST parameters
Write a Bash script that takes in a URL, sends a POST request to the passed URL, and displays the body of the response

- A variable `email` must be sent with the value `test@gmail.com`
- A variable `subject` must be sent with the value `I will always be here for PLD`
- You have to use `curl`
Please test your script in the sandbox provided, using the web server running on port 5000
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ ./5-post_params.sh 0.0.0.0:5000/route_6 ; echo ""
POST params:
    email: test@gmail.com
    subject: I will always be here for PLD
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x10$ 
```

### 
## Resources
- [HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/webprogramming/HTTP_Basics.html) (except: “TRACE” Request Method, “CONNECT” Request Method, Language Negotiation and “Options MultiView” and Character Set Negotiation)
- [HTTP Cookies](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies)
