0x0F-python-object_relational_mapping/README.md, before:

# 0x0F. Python - Object-relational mapping
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- How to connect to a MySQL database from a Python script
- How to `SELECT` rows in a MySQL table from a Python script
- How to `INSERT` rows in a MySQL table from a Python script
- What ORM means
- How to map a Python Class to a MySQL table
- How to create a Python Virtual Environment
## Background context
In this project, you will link two amazing worlds: Databases and Python!

In the first part, you will use the module `MySQLdb` to connect to a MySQL database and execute your SQL queries.

In the second part, you will use the module `SQLAlchemy` (don’t ask me how to pronounce it…) an Object Relational Mapper (ORM).

The biggest difference is: no more SQL queries! Indeed, the purpose of an ORM is to abstract the storage to the usage. With an ORM, your biggest concern will be “What can I do with my objects” and not “How this object is stored? where? when?”. You won’t write any SQL queries only Python code. Last thing, your code won’t be “storage type” dependent. You will be able to change your storage easily without re-writing your entire project.

Without ORM:
```python
conn = MySQLdb.connect(host="localhost", port=3306, user="root", passwd="root", db="my_db", charset="utf8")
cur = conn.cursor()
cur.execute("SELECT * FROM states ORDER BY id ASC") # HERE I have to know SQL to grab all states in my database
query_rows = cur.fetchall()
for row in query_rows:
    print(row)
cur.close()
conn.close()
```
With an ORM:
```python
engine = create_engine('mysql+mysqldb://{}:{}@localhost/{}'.format("root", "root", "my_db"), pool_pre_ping=True)
Base.metadata.create_all(engine)

session = Session(engine)
for state in session.query(State).order_by(State.id).all(): # HERE: no SQL query, only objects!
    print("{}: {}".format(state.id, state.name))
session.close()
```
Do you see the difference? Cool, right?

The biggest difficulty with ORM is: The syntax!

Indeed, all of them have the same type of syntax, but not always. Please read tutorials and don’t read the entire documentation before starting, just jump on it if you don’t get something.
## Tasks
### 0. Get all states
Write a script that lists all states from the database `hbtn_0e_0_usa`:

- Your script should take 3 arguments: `mysql username`, `mysql password` and `database name` (no argument validation needed)
- You must use the module `MySQLdb` (import `MySQLdb`)
- Your script should connect to a MySQL server running on `localhost` at port `3306`
- Results must be sorted in ascending order by `states.id`
- Results must be displayed as they are in the example below
- Your code should not be executed when imported
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ cat 0-select_states.sql | mysql -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ ./0-select_states.py root root hbtn_0e_0_usa
(1, 'California')
(2, 'Arizona')
(3, 'Texas')
(4, 'New York')
(5, 'Nevada')
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ 
```
### 1. Filter states
Write a script that lists all states with a name starting with `N` (upper N) from the database `hbtn_0e_0_usa`:

- Your script should take 3 arguments: `mysql username`, `mysql password` and `database name` (no argument validation needed)
- You must use the module `MySQLdb` (import `MySQLdb`)
- Your script should connect to a MySQL server running on `localhost` at port `3306`
- Results must be sorted in ascending order by `states.id`
- Results must be displayed as they are in the example below
- Your code should not be executed when imported
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ ./1-filter_states.py root root hbtn_0e_0_usa
(4, 'New York')
(5, 'Nevada')
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## More Info
### Install and activate venv
To create a Python Virtual Environment, allowing you to install specific dependencies for this python project, we will install venv:
```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python3.8-venv
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
```
### Install MySQLdb module version 2.0.x
For installing `MySQLdb`, you need to have `MySQL` installed: 
```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python3-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev
$ sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev
$ sudo pip3 install mysqlclient
...
$ python3
>>> import MySQLdb
>>> MySQLdb.version_info 
(2, 0, 3, 'final', 0)
```
### Install SQLAlchemy module version 1.4.x
```bash
$ sudo pip3 install SQLAlchemy
...
$ python3
>>> import sqlalchemy
>>> sqlalchemy.__version__ 
'1.4.22'
```
Also, you can have this warning message:
```bash
/usr/local/lib/python3.4/dist-packages/sqlalchemy/engine/default.py:552: Warning: (1681, "'@@SESSION.GTID_EXECUTED' is deprecated and will be re
moved in a future release.")                                                                                                                    
  cursor.execute(statement, parameters) 
``` 
You can ignore it.


## Resources
- [Object-relational mappers](https://www.fullstackpython.com/object-relational-mappers-orms.html)
- [mysqlclient/MySQLdb documentation (please don’t pay attention to _mysql)](https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/)
- [MySQLdb tutorial](https://www.mikusa.com/python-mysql-docs/cleanup.html)
- [SQLAlchemy tutorial](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/orm/tutorial.html#configuring-delete-delete-orphan-cascade)
- [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/)
- [mysqlclient/MySQLdb](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient)
- [Introduction to SQLAlchemy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=woKYyhLCcnU)
- [Flask SQLAlchemy](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXmMXHVSvS-BlLA5beNJojJLlpE0PJgCW)
- [10 common stumbling blocks for SQLAlchemy newbies](https://alextechrants.blogspot.com/2013/11/10-common-stumbling-blocks-for.html)
- [Python SQLAlchemy Cheatsheet](https://www.pythonsheets.com/notes/python-sqlalchemy.html)
- [SQLAlchemy ORM Tutorial for Python Developers (Warning: This tutorial is with PostgreSQL,but the concept of SQLAlchemy is the same with MySQL)](https://auth0.com/blog/sqlalchemy-orm-tutorial-for-python-developers/)
- [SQLAlchemy Tutorial](https://overiq.com/sqlalchemy-101/)
- [Python Virtual Environments: A primer](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/)

Commit message:

Added Task 2: Filter states by user input

0x0F-python-object_relational_mapping/README.md, after:

# 0x0F. Python - Object-relational mapping
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- How to connect to a MySQL database from a Python script
- How to `SELECT` rows in a MySQL table from a Python script
- How to `INSERT` rows in a MySQL table from a Python script
- What ORM means
- How to map a Python Class to a MySQL table
- How to create a Python Virtual Environment
## Background context
In this project, you will link two amazing worlds: Databases and Python!

In the first part, you will use the module `MySQLdb` to connect to a MySQL database and execute your SQL queries.

In the second part, you will use the module `SQLAlchemy` (don’t ask me how to pronounce it…) an Object Relational Mapper (ORM).

The biggest difference is: no more SQL queries! Indeed, the purpose of an ORM is to abstract the storage to the usage. With an ORM, your biggest concern will be “What can I do with my objects” and not “How this object is stored? where? when?”. You won’t write any SQL queries only Python code. Last thing, your code won’t be “storage type” dependent. You will be able to change your storage easily without re-writing your entire project.

Without ORM:
```python
conn = MySQLdb.connect(host="localhost", port=3306, user="root", passwd="root", db="my_db", charset="utf8")
cur = conn.cursor()
cur.execute("SELECT * FROM states ORDER BY id ASC") # HERE I have to know SQL to grab all states in my database
query_rows = cur.fetchall()
for row in query_rows:
    print(row)
cur.close()
conn.close()
```
With an ORM:
```python
engine = create_engine('mysql+mysqldb://{}:{}@localhost/{}'.format("root", "root", "my_db"), pool_pre_ping=True)
Base.metadata.create_all(engine)

session = Session(engine)
for state in session.query(State).order_by(State.id).all(): # HERE: no SQL query, only objects!
    print("{}: {}".format(state.id, state.name))
session.close()
```
Do you see the difference? Cool, right?

The biggest difficulty with ORM is: The syntax!

Indeed, all of them have the same type of syntax, but not always. Please read tutorials and don’t read the entire documentation before starting, just jump on it if you don’t get something.
## Tasks
### 0. Get all states
Write a script that lists all states from the database `hbtn_0e_0_usa`:

- Your script should take 3 arguments: `mysql username`, `mysql password` and `database name` (no argument validation needed)
- You must use the module `MySQLdb` (import `MySQLdb`)
- Your script should connect to a MySQL server running on `localhost` at port `3306`
- Results must be sorted in ascending order by `states.id`
- Results must be displayed as they are in the example below
- Your code should not be executed when imported
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ cat 0-select_states.sql | mysql -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ ./0-select_states.py root root hbtn_0e_0_usa
(1, 'California')
(2, 'Arizona')
(3, 'Texas')
(4, 'New York')
(5, 'Nevada')
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ 
```
### 1. Filter states
Write a script that lists all states with a name starting with `N` (upper N) from the database `hbtn_0e_0_usa`:

- Your script should take 3 arguments: `mysql username`, `mysql password` and `database name` (no argument validation needed)
- You must use the module `MySQLdb` (import `MySQLdb`)
- Your script should connect to a MySQL server running on `localhost` at port `3306`
- Results must be sorted in ascending order by `states.id`
- Results must be displayed as they are in the example below
- Your code should not be executed when imported
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ ./1-filter_states.py root root hbtn_0e_0_usa
(4, 'New York')
(5, 'Nevada')
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ 
```
### 2. Filter states by user input
Write a script that takes in an argument and displays all values in the `states` table of `hbtn_0e_0_usa` where `name` matches the argument.

- Your script should take 4 arguments: `mysql username`, `mysql password`, `database name` and `state name` searched (no argument validation needed)
- You must use the module `MySQLdb` (import `MySQLdb`)
- Your script should connect to a MySQL server running on `localhost` at port `3306`
- You must use `format` to create the SQL query with the user input
- Results must be sorted in ascending order by `states.id`
- Results must be displayed as they are in the example below
- Your code should not be executed when imported
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ cat 0-select_states.sql | mysql -uroot -p
Enter password: 
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ ./2-my_filter_states.py root root hbtn_0e_0_usa 'Arizona'
(2, 'Arizona')
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0F$ 
```
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## More Info
### Install and activate venv
To create a Python Virtual Environment, allowing you to install specific dependencies for this python project, we will install venv:
```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python3.8-venv
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
```
### Install MySQLdb module version 2.0.x
For installing `MySQLdb`, you need to have `MySQL` installed: 
```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python3-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev
$ sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev
$ sudo pip3 install mysqlclient
...
$ python3
>>> import MySQLdb
>>> MySQLdb.version_info 
(2, 0, 3, 'final', 0)
```
### Install SQLAlchemy module version 1.4.x
```bash
$ sudo pip3 install SQLAlchemy
...
$ python3
>>> import sqlalchemy
>>> sqlalchemy.__version__ 
'1.4.22'
```
Also, you can have this warning message:
```bash
/usr/local/lib/python3.4/dist-packages/sqlalchemy/engine/default.py:552: Warning: (1681, "'@@SESSION.GTID_EXECUTED' is deprecated and will be re
moved in a future release.")                                                                                                                    
  cursor.execute(statement, parameters) 
``` 
You can ignore it.


## Resources
- [Object-relational mappers](https://www.fullstackpython.com/object-relational-mappers-orms.html)
- [mysqlclient/MySQLdb documentation (please don’t pay attention to _mysql)](https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/)
- [MySQLdb tutorial](https://www.mikusa.com/python-mysql-docs/cleanup.html)
- [SQLAlchemy tutorial](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/orm/tutorial.html#configuring-delete-delete-orphan-cascade)
- [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/)
- [mysqlclient/MySQLdb](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient)
- [Introduction to SQLAlchemy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=woKYyhLCcnU)
- [Flask SQLAlchemy](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXmMXHVSvS-BlLA5beNJojJLlpE0PJgCW)
- [10 common stumbling blocks for SQLAlchemy newbies](https://alextechrants.blogspot.com/2013/11/10-common-stumbling-blocks-for.html)
- [Python SQLAlchemy Cheatsheet](https://www.pythonsheets.com/notes/python-sqlalchemy.html)
- [SQLAlchemy ORM Tutorial for Python Developers (Warning: This tutorial is with PostgreSQL,but the concept of SQLAlchemy is the same with MySQL)](https://auth0.com/blog/sqlalchemy-orm-tutorial-for-python-developers/)
- [SQLAlchemy Tutorial](https://overiq.com/sqlalchemy-101/)
- [Python Virtual Environments: A primer](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/)
