0x0B-python-input_output/README.md, before:

# 0x0B. Python - Input/Output
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- How to open a file
- How to write text in a file
- How to read the full content of a file
- How to read a file line by line
- How to move the cursor in a file
- How to make sure a file is closed after using it
- What is and how to use the `with` statement
- What is `JSON`
- What is serialization
- What is deserialization
- How to convert a Python data structure to a JSON string
- How to convert a JSON string to a Python data structure

## Tasks
### 0. Read file
Write a function that reads a text file (`UTF8`) and prints it to stdout:

- Prototype: `def read_file(filename=""):`
- You must use the `with` statement
- You don’t need to manage file permission or file doesn't exist exceptions.
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./0-main.py
We offer a truly innovative approach to education:
focus on building reliable applications and scalable systems, take on real-world challenges, collaborate with your peers. 

A school every software engineer would have dreamt of!guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$
``` 
**No test cases needed**
### 1. Write to a file
Write a function that writes a string to a text file (`UTF8`) and returns the number of characters written:

- Prototype: `def write_file(filename="", text=""):`
- You must use the `with` statement
- You don’t need to manage file permission exceptions.
- Your function should create the file if doesn’t exist.
- Your function should overwrite the content of the file if it already exists.
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./1-main.py
29
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ cat my_first_file.txt
This School is so cool!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [7.2. Reading and Writing Files](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-files)
- [8.7. Predefined Clean-up Actions](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#predefined-clean-up-actions)
- [Dive Into Python 3: Chapter 11. Files (until “11.4 Binary Files” (included))](https://histo.ucsf.edu/BMS270/diveintopython3-r802.pdf)
- [JSON encoder and decoder](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#json-to-py-table)
- [Learn to Program 8 : Reading / Writing Files](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EukxMIsNeqU)
- [Automate the Boring Stuff with Python (ch. 8 p 180-183 and ch. 14 p 326-333)](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/)
- [All about py-file I/O](https://techvidvan.com/tutorials/python-file-read-write/)

Commit message:

Added Task 2: Append to a file

0x0B-python-input_output/README.md, after:

# 0x0B. Python - Input/Output
Concepts learnt:
- Why Python programming is awesome
- How to open a file
- How to write text in a file
- How to read the full content of a file
- How to read a file line by line
- How to move the cursor in a file
- How to make sure a file is closed after using it
- What is and how to use the `with` statement
- What is `JSON`
- What is serialization
- What is deserialization
- How to convert a Python data structure to a JSON string
- How to convert a JSON string to a Python data structure

## Tasks
### 0. Read file
Write a function that reads a text file (`UTF8`) and prints it to stdout:

- Prototype: `def read_file(filename=""):`
- You must use the `with` statement
- You don’t need to manage file permission or file doesn't exist exceptions.
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./0-main.py
We offer a truly innovative approach to education:
focus on building reliable applications and scalable systems, take on real-world challenges, collaborate with your peers. 

A school every software engineer would have dreamt of!guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$
``` 
**No test cases needed**
### 1. Write to a file
Write a function that writes a string to a text file (`UTF8`) and returns the number of characters written:

- Prototype: `def write_file(filename="", text=""):`
- You must use the `with` statement
- You don’t need to manage file permission exceptions.
- Your function should create the file if doesn’t exist.
- Your function should overwrite the content of the file if it already exists.
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./1-main.py
29
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ cat my_first_file.txt
This School is so cool!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 2. Append to a file
Write a function that appends a string at the end of a text file (`UTF8`) and returns the number of characters added:

- Prototype: `def append_write(filename="", text=""):`
- If the file doesn’t exist, it should be created
- You must use the `with` statement
- You don’t need to manage file permission or file doesn't exist exceptions.
- You are not allowed to import any module
```bash
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ cat file_append.txt
cat: file_append.txt: No such file or directory
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./2-main.py
29
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ cat file_append.txt
This School is so cool!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ ./2-main.py
29
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ cat file_append.txt
This School is so cool!
This School is so cool!
guillaume@ubuntu:~/0x0B$ 
```
**No test cases needed**
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
### 
## Resources
- [7.2. Reading and Writing Files](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/inputoutput.html#reading-and-writing-files)
- [8.7. Predefined Clean-up Actions](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#predefined-clean-up-actions)
- [Dive Into Python 3: Chapter 11. Files (until “11.4 Binary Files” (included))](https://histo.ucsf.edu/BMS270/diveintopython3-r802.pdf)
- [JSON encoder and decoder](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#json-to-py-table)
- [Learn to Program 8 : Reading / Writing Files](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EukxMIsNeqU)
- [Automate the Boring Stuff with Python (ch. 8 p 180-183 and ch. 14 p 326-333)](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/)
- [All about py-file I/O](https://techvidvan.com/tutorials/python-file-read-write/)
